Well they had movies in Guyon Hall that were pretty
inexpensive. I can remember going to them on
Saturday evening and the campus theater was
there. There were two theaters in downtown Bryan
or three. One of them is the one that burned, you
know, that has, I don't remember going to a lot of
movies, but I remember going to a few. And you never
were a smoker? No.
I didn't uh, I didn't ever really get started. I
smoked a few cigarettes my freshman year, decided
that it was done, and just never did go any further.
Uh, uh, did you and your buddies go to the MSC much?
Snack bar? Cokes, coffee? Yeah, I remember uh, uh,
going for uh some kind you know a coke or a coffee or
something in the MSC and I was just talking to
someone the other day uh there was a friend of mine
Doug With that I have you know knew all of his life
after that point in history but I remember the
first time I met him was in the MSC in that coffee
shop he was a senior the year I was a freshman so
those things
living in the core with this responsibility to
meet everybody to remember where they're from to
remember where they're what they're majoring in
and everything it just made you it made
individuals made impressions on you that you know
stayed with you for years and years was it in the
long run was that a good a good practice Was it worth
the effort? Yes. I think that there were some
really positive things about the Corps. There
were some negatives, too, but the... What were the
positives? Well, being personally responsible
for meeting people and being able to, you know,
have a conversation with anybody in the world and
to you know remember who they were when you saw them
again and after a while we got very good at
remembering names and you know we had a unit of a
hundred people we knew everybody's name where
they were all from what their majors were In a lot of
cases, if they had a brother that had come to A&M, we
knew that. So any A&M connection in these
families, we would more than likely know
something about that. Most of the people I knew
were the first, we were the first person in the
family that had ever gone to A&M. So it was more
unusual in those days to have your father to have
been an A&M graduate. Did you get involved in any
MSC activities or were they not yet well
organized? The MSC was not too far along at that
time as far as a campus organization. I know just a
year or two after me, one of my 4-H friends, his name
was Don McGinty and he he became very active and
eventually became a MSC council president, one of
the first ones, I guess. So I was in the club for
range and forestry students and I was in the Alpha
Zeta agricultural fraternity. I was on the Ag
Council. I, of course, I was in the Ross
Volunteers. I was in the debate, on the debate
team. Those are the, the main things I remember.
There was Phi Kappa Phi my senior year. So,
so there were a lot of evening activities after my,
freshman year. I don't remember doing any of that
my freshman year. Alright, you came back that fall
of your sophomore year with a car? Yes, some,
right, I think actually sometime during my
sophomore year I got that car. What kind of car was
it? It was a 1941 Chevrolet Coupe. So this is. I had
one of those. I wish I had that. Mine was a business
coupe. Yeah this was uh it was a coupe it had a sun
visor on it it had fender skirts on it it had it had a
metallic green paint job that you could see from
them two miles away you know it was a beautiful
thing. A vehicle that was 10-11 years old did you
think of that as an old car or kind of a? Well it was
kind of an old car but I didn't really think of it as
being a negative, you know. There were, it was,
you, if you had a car you were still above average at
that point. Where did you park it? Well there were,
there were parking lots near the dorms. I was in
dorm 12 that year. Because you didn't have to have a
sticker. I guess so. And you never did have any,
didn't have any breaking or? No. I don't remember
ever having anybody ever talking about a car being
stolen or a car being broken into. Did you become a
more popular guy with your associates once you got
a car that they would want to ride with you or borrow
it? I don't remember that I don't remember that I
don't remember loaning it out a lot and I guess if
I'd been you know if I'd been going out at night well
that but even as even as sophomores we still had a
lot of restrictions on where we could go and
whether we could leave the campus or not. How was
being a sophomore different from being a
freshman?
Well, I decided that as a sophomore I wanted to
do the academics, do the leadership things, and I
was not particularly interested in harassing
freshmen. I didn't. So the main thing that I
remember about being a sophomore was the pressure
of being in the Corps was less. And where was your
outfit then, physically? Physically, that year
it seems like we were in Dormitory 12 next door to
Sabisa. Excuse me, Duncan. To Duncan. Yeah,
right. And so you didn't harass the, you didn't?
Oh, not a lot. Did somebody come and take care of
your room or do any cleaning up for you? No. No.
There was not much personal service. That was an
ongoing problem, but I, you know, rarely ever saw
that. Rarely was, I was, as a freshman, I was never
asked to give personal service. As a sophomore,
because we were the low-ranking people in the
unit, occasionally somebody would want their
boots polished, and then it was a real judgment
call as to whether you said no or whether you did it,
you know, and some people would say no and other
people would be afraid to say no, and they would do
the boot polishing, but that was about the extent
of the personal service. And you're digging in on
your grades. Have you, by that point, changed your
mind as to what you hoped your future goal was going
to be professionally? I think by that time I was
beginning to realize that I was going to need to
find a job and make a living not as a
rancher, but as somebody developing a
profession. But my vision was not beyond the BS at
that time. And I,
for reasons that I don't understand now, became,
you know, convinced that I was not going to go to
graduate school. I was just going to be a regular
fellow, you know. I'm going to get a BS and go out and
make a living and that was going to be it. And I
persisted in that until I graduated and worked for
a while and was so discouraged
by the apparent lack of opportunities in the area
that I was working in. Now there weren't many
graduate students on this campus then, were
there? That's right. They weren't very visible
and very unlikely you could talk to them. about
what it was like and what they were doing. Did that
sophomore year, were there, there weren't any
particular changes on the campus, nothing,
nothing unusual or anything? Not that I remember.
that was the era that David Morgan came as
president and I guess that we I thought that was a
very positive thing and I heard him speak to the
range and forestry club and I thought he was a very
sensible man and he had a lot of good advice for us
and he gave us a talk about
how to get started in your career. And I remember he
told us that the most likely thing that a graduate
would do with his first job was quit in less than a
year out of discouragement, you know, and
thinking that he never could get anywhere and that
sort of thing. And he said, if you do that, you make a
mistake. And I remember that. But for some reason,
he didn't last very long. That may have been my
first exposure to, you know, sort of an ongoing
problem at A&M of
palace intrigues or turnover in the
administration or personal conflicts between
various people in the administration. Now, did
you get, by this time, were you involved with the
local congregation?
No, I wasn't. I was
my wife-to-be, and I were from different
churches. And so during that time in my life, I was
trying to decide what I was going to do about that as
a possible problem for a marriage. And
eventually, that was resolved.
I became a member of the Church of Christ after we
were married. Did you, while you were a student
here, did you go to any religious services? I went
to the Baptist Church at Northgate a little bit.
Some of my acquaintances who were members of
Churches of Christ took me to Bryan. I don't
remember ever attending the Church of Christ in
College Station while I was an undergraduate. Uh,
and were there some Sunday night foods, foods
available at some of those, uh, uh, events? I never
got involved in any of that for some reason. I, I
know that since then, you know, the church that I'm
involved in now does a lot of that, you know, but I, I
don't remember ever experiencing that. So for me,
at Austin College, that was one of the big things.
Because we didn't have Sunday night supper. They
gave us a brown bag. But the Westminster
Fellowship ladies cooked a meal, so we all. And we
snickered that we were rice Christians, that we
went only to get the list for the food. Do you
remember Religious Emphasis Week during your
undergraduate days? Yes. Describe it. What was it
like? Well, it was a pretty big thing. in those days
and I remember they had they had one
session a day in Gine Hall everybody would go and
listen and then there would be somebody either not
not every dorm had a lounge in it but the dorms that
had lounges would have discussion groups and
these would be led by out of town ministers too and
so it just would sort of depend on who you know I
guess you didn't really have any control over who
was assigned to the dorm where you were to go. But I
remember going to all of those and thinking they
were useful and productive and that the people had
good ideas. And I would always come out feeling
very optimistic and thinking, well, I'm going to
be a better person and everything. And classes
were dismissed mid-morning, weren't they? And
wasn't there a sermon in or presentation in Guyon?
Yes. Did I say rudder? Maybe I did. No, no, I don't
know. So that was right. You had like 10 o'clock to
11 or 10 o'clock to 11 30 or something. There was an
hour off each day during that week. And I remember
the attendance was pretty good. During
the the Korean War is still going on during this
time. Did you and your buddies talk about that much
and chow and dining and dormitory and so forth? I
don't remember talking about it much. There were
people that were that were people that left school
or people that flunked out were going immediately
into the military. we had people that were
graduating that were being killed before you know
within a year of when they graduated I remember the
guy that was the head jail leader my freshman year
was dead before football season was over the next
year or something like that so it was a ominous
presence especially I remember feeling sort of
really uh discouraged about the war during the
time when the Chinese first entered the war and
they were just sweeping down over overrunning
units and everything and and we knew enough about
that to know you know what what was happening there
or sort of in in general what was happening but I
never did
I never did feel like that it was something that I
needed to worry about personally. I really
expected that when my four years was up that I
would, you know, get ready and go and do my tour. And
it was a bit of a surprise that it was actually
settled before I graduated or shortly after I
graduated.
When I graduated, well, I had orders for, I think,
December of the following, well, of that year, and
those orders were changed then, and they were
changed from two years active duty to to six months
active duty for training. So that was sort of the,
that was one of the events that probably pushed me
in the direction of an academic career because it
put... Did you go to summer camp after your
sophomore year? After my junior year. Junior
year. Yes. What was that like? Where was it and so
forth? Summer camp for the Transportation Corps
was at Fort Eustis, Virginia. Tidewater area, hot
summers, humid, just like College Station. We
were there with people from all over the United
States, but I remember we had a big competition
with the unit that had all of the Texas, University
of Texas guys in it, and We were determined to have
the best unit at summer camp, you know. So, and I
think we ended up sort of in a dead heat with them.
They didn't want us to show them up and so they did
their best to compete with us on everything. Could
you tell at summer camp that the Corps had given you
and your buddies a good preparation? for active
duty possibilities? Yes. And we were amazed at how
little some of the guys were prepared for anything
military. And we felt good about our preparation.
Now there weren't any sudden events were there
during your undergraduate days that you remember
where you were when you heard the news that like
Pearl Harbor for the earlier group and Kennedy
assassination later there was nothing like that
was there? No. A startling event that stopped
everything? I don't remember anything like that
while I was in school.
Not at all. Were there any celebrity students? Who
were the most visible students on the campus when
you were here, then or now? Well then the celebrity
students would have been either athletes or. Such
as? There was a, there was a,
I think it was during my undergraduate time there
was a guy that was a football player and a shot
putter named Darryl Hooper who competed in the
Olympics. There was a guy named Davis who played
basketball and was a high jumper and competed in
the Olympics.
Did guys like that go to class regularly, as far as
you knew? As far as I knew, they did. Did you and your
buddies know about any kind of crip courses or
special giveaway grade points for anybody? No.
There was the campus rumors were that if you wanted
the best old quiz files to study for anything that
the athletes had them. But there was in those days
there was no indication that they had the quizzes
before they were given or anything like that. And
as far as you knew athletes went to class? Yes, and a
lot of those, you know, I remember one of the
football players was Larry Winkler from Temple
area. He was in a lot of my classes, was just an
ordinary person. In fact, he said that, you know,
until he was small as a high schooler and gruesome
after his senior year and I don't think he even had a
scholarship when he came to A&M but he played his
way onto the team and ended up with the scholarship
and there were a lot of people like that there were
uh I guess there were some some elitist type
athletes that were just athletes, you know,
especially, uh, when I was a freshman, uh, uh,
there were two or three quite well-known running
backs, uh, Smith, Robert Smith, and a few other
people. But, but people like Yale Larry, you know,
played his senior year played fullback some when
Smith got hurt and you know weighed 150 pounds or
something you know and you just think he couldn't
do it and and that just you know gave everybody the
impression that they were just uh just like
everybody else were there any contemporaries of
yours that have now gone on to world fame national
fame
Gotten rich, served in a certain office, been
president of. I can't think of any of those people
in my class that have exceeded, you know, in those
kinds of, at those levels. Describe the A&M
student body in general. Where were they from?
What kinds of backgrounds? What kinds of
attitudes? What kind of economic groups and so
forth? Well, in those days there were, as I recall,
there were almost 2,000 freshmen in 1951.
There were quite a few from Houston and San Antonio
and Dallas-Fort Worth, but Once you got past that
point, most of them were from small towns. Most of
them were from Texas. If they weren't from Texas,
more than likely there was some family connection
to A&M. And
they were not so many that were from well-to-do
families. So that was part of the explanation for
there not being a, a large number of cars and they
weren't all new cars by any stretch of the
imagination. And I remember having a friend whose
father owned an automobile agency, you know, and
we all thought of him as being upper, you know,
upper economic class. So that sort of, you know,
illustrated that we were all from pretty far down
the economic ladder. Did your family background
really matter here among the student body? No,
not, you know, that's one thing that they told us
when we came was that you're going to be in a big
fraternity and all you've got to, it doesn't
matter what your family background is or how much
money you have or you don't have, you're going to be
judged on your performance. And we saw that with
the Hispanic students. And there were quite a few
in those days. And of all my regrets about the A&M
traditions, one of them is that there weren't as
many black students in those days. In other words,
if A&M at that stage in the history of Texas and the
South had had voluntarily admitted blacks at that
time I think we'd have another thing to be proud of
in our heritage but but our but the Hispanic
students were accepted based on just the judgment
that was passed on everybody else did they pull
their share of the load, did they follow the rules,
you know, all of those sorts of things. And true
also for Jewish kids, was it? Yes. Jewish kids, I
knew a few, and I remember one of my professors I
learned was Jewish, and he was the first adult, you
know, Jew, I suppose, that I'd ever known. And I
remember that he was in the chemistry department,
was an excellent teacher, and everybody had a
good, you know, I never heard anyone say anything
negative about him. And it didn't matter how much
your family made or didn't make, it was how you were
a part of the group, is that right? Yes. Did lots of
students have nicknames then?
Quite a few. Did you? No, I don't.
I'm trying to remember about that. I
did not have a nickname, but especially the
students that that got into trouble quote unquote
you know the ones that were always saying the wrong
thing at the wrong time or something like that they
would get a what they would call a handle and they
they would have to introduce themselves as Fish I
always mess up whenever I get excited, Jones is my
name or something like that, you know. So, and
sometimes those would be temporary and sometimes
they'd be sort of permanent. Fortunately, I
didn't get hung with one of those. Part of my
strategy was to kind of keep a low profile and not
get into all kinds of trouble. Among the student
body, what were the most prestigious leadership
positions on the entire campus? Well, we saw the
core staff. as more visible and more important to
the day-to-day student life than the student body
president or who was not so important. I guess the
non, the students that weren't in the core were
mostly veterans, mostly totally here for
academics, trying to graduate as quickly as
possible. And so, And the core generated enough
work for, you know, most everybody to have plenty
to do and it wasn't until there was a significant
part of the student body that wasn't in the core
that there was a surplus of leadership to do the big
MSC development and other things like that. So
that was before the time of the student
National Affairs, SCONA things, you know, all of
that. What about the Yale leaders? Yale leaders
were very visible. What did you all think of the
band?
Well, I can't remember ever having any
anything but admiration for the band as a whole and
some of people that were in transportation corps
in our classes ROTC classes could be in the band and
so they were all good friends
I don't remember much else about it. The Corps
always had these fierce competitions for
marching and marching and who would win this and
that.